# And Now My Watch Has Ended

###### It's been a great journey, despite the occasional potholes

#### 29th May 2019

**The following is a review of the final series of Game of Thrones and as such will contain spoilers. If you don't like that, turn back. It will also contain book spoilers.**

So, that's it.

It's been a while, hasn't it? And it's also been a while since _Game of Thrones_ first came onto our screens. Over the years, it's transformed, and now, eight years after it first aired, David Benioff and Dan Weiss have attempted to Sanderson the series. How did they fare?

Eh.

There's been much criticism over the final season, some warranted, some debatable, and some that's clearly just complaining for complaining's sake. But, the long and short of it is that I'm fairly satisfied. _Thrones_ has always been about the journey more than the destination, and although we did kind of stray off the beaten path a bit for the last few seasons, we arrived where we were supposed to.
 
Let's start with the biggest plot point of the series - Daenerys' descent into madness. Despite what people seem to claim, this has been coming for a long, long time. It was almost a little _too_ on-the-nose, but it's definitely a logical jump - much has been made of the Targaryan's tendency to flip out and burn everybody throughout the series, Dany has used fire as revenge on more than one occasion, but everyone just passed it off as cute for some reason. Maybe it's just because people can't manage to actually fucking think for themselves that maybe burning surrendered, unarmed soldiers to death instead of providing a fair trial isn't a fair form of justice and they have to be explicitly told by the writers that tyrannical dictatorship is bad? It's not that it couldn't have been done better, mind you - one of the main criticisms I have of the last two seasons as a whole is simply that they should have spent more time fleshing things out - but it's not like it came out of nowhere.
 
An actual issue I have was with the disposal of the Night King. I'm a bit iffy on the whole idea of the night king, truth be told: I think he worked as a piece of lore to place an origin to the White Walkers, but putting him as a real figurehead and antagonist is somewhat cliché and feels out of place in a story that tries its best to break free of such tropes. So if having him exist was trite enough, imagine how I feel about the deus ex machina of Arya stabbing him in the gut moments before defeat. Anticlimactic, and frankly makes a joke of the entire build up.

The finale itself was a little slow-paced but I think it needed to be; as I mentioned before, this a series about the journey, not the destination, and it's a journey that's not going to stop just because they've run out of budget - the world of ASOIAF is one of the most well-realised worlds in literary history, and it would make no sense for it to end without seeing at least part of the fallout of everything. Dany's death was somewhat rushed - something that can be said of the vast majority of the last two seasons, to be fair - but everyone fell more or less where they should be. There was a new king's council (I actually quite enjoyed that scene, although I can see why it rubs some people the wrong way), Sansa declares independence in the North and Arya sets sail for a spinoff which will likely be watched by No One. 

From a cinematic perspective, it's absolutely stunning. Episodes 3 and 5 respectively have the quality of films that cost hundreds of millions, and although the episode budget was huge at a reported $15 million per episode, it still pales in comparison to movies of comparable quality (_Avengers: Endgame_, for example, had a budget of $350 million) and made in significantly less time. It's just a shame that the script suffers so much as a result: the deep, layered conversations between characters are thrown out in favour of jokes about balls and the subtlety of GRRM's dialogue has been replaced with the bluntness of a plastic butter knife. Perhaps the most disappointing thing is that we know that D&D are actually capable of writing good stuff, despite their apparent insistence in trying to convince us otherwise. Littlefinger's iconic speech "Chaos is a ladder..." is emblematic of the type of dialogue that used to be synonymous with _Thrones_, and that didn't come from the books. But it's clear that the budget was spent elsewhere this time out.

All in all, I'm satisfied, and more than most, as the Internet indicates. But, most importantly, this isn't the end of my journey. I've reached a layby down a side street, but, if the Seven Gods be good, GRRM will eventually finish the series in the way he wants - and I will return to the Kingsroad and finish the original journey. Because the destination doesn't matter, and it's been a great journey, despite the occasional potholes. _Game of Thrones_ has been a cultural phenomenon unlike any other, there's no denying that, and I'm not going to let the mob culture of the modern age try and tell me why I shouldn't have enjoyed it. Because I did. Ultimately, I fucking loved _Game of Thrones_ from start to finish, warts and all.
