# Honeymooning in South Africa

###### South Africa, you were sensational, and I hope to be back one day.

#### 15th January 2018

This blog is long overdue, but over arrangements have unfortunately got in the way of my time. 

Back in July, as you probably already know, I got married! And frequently, when two people get married, they go on a honeymoon together. And so it was with Gabi and I. We had decided a long time ago that South Africa would be the destination of choice. It was a dream for Gabi to go on Safari and see giraffes, whilst for me I was desperate to visit the famous Boulders Beach and see the multitude of penguins that resided there. We initially thought to do the garden route, as so many others had done beforehand, but whilst we were planning our wedding we happened to visit a (rather terrible) wedding show in the Business Design Centre in Angel. Although there was absolutely nothing of interest in the show itself, on the way out we stumbled across a stall for [Africa&You](http://www.africaandyou.com/). Like so many of these stalls they were offering a competition to win part of a honeymoon, in this case, to South Africa! And so we thought, we're going there anyway, why not?

The unthinkable happened, and we won six nights at three ridiculous hotels spread across Cape Town, Cedarberg and Durban. We extended our stay in Cape Town, bought three nights at a game reserve in Kruger and paid for flights - and with that we were set up with a more incredible honeymoon than we could ever have dreamed of.

Landing the day after our 11-year anniversary in late November, we hired a car from Cape Town airport - a Hyundai i10, which may just be the worst thing I've ever driven. As we slowly creeped up towards 100km/h along the N7, we took in the surroundings of an astonishingly beautiful country that was, at the same time, terrifyingly empty. At one point we went almost 50km without seeing another person. And on occasion you would see people walking along the side of the road, 10-15km away from the nearest building, seemingly walking a long commute to work.

We arrived at our first hotel, Bushman's Kloof Wilderness Reserve, in the early hours of the afternoon, where we were greeted with iced rooibos tea and a very warm welcome. Bushman's Kloof is a private non-predatory game reserve, and we headed out that evening for what would be our first experience of a game drive. And, it was fantastic - we saw dozens of different types of antelope a few feet away, herds of Zebra, and even baby Ostriches. But this incredible experience would become paltry in comparison to what was to come. After two days at Bushman's, during which we cycled, swam, relaxed, stalked a Red Hartebeest and hiked up a mountain, it was time to move on to what I personally had been looking forward to the most - Cape Town.

It took quite a while to get into Cape Town, and where we were staying - at the Twelve Apostles, the other side of the city in Camp's Bay, under the shadow of Table Mountain - was deep into the city. Along the way we took a wrong turn and accidentally ended up underneath Table Mountain, which was good, because we then knew where it was when we returned around an hour later. It was a fair wait to get up to the top - probably about 45 minutes - but when we got to the top, the views were utterly spectacular. We were lucky; we'd hit a day where there was absolutely no cloud and no tablecloth obscuring the view and we made it up in plenty of time to witness a perfect sunset across the ocean. And then came the wait to get back down - we queued for _at least_ two hours, and as the sun fell in, the temperature plummeted. They handed us foil blankets to wrap round ourselves, and Gabi went and purchased a tacky (in a good way) Table Mountain hoodie to stop her from freezing. It was late when we got back, so we ordered room service, ready for the next day which would be the busiest yet.

Even in the shitty i10, the drive from Camp's Bay along Chapman's Peak Drive to Cape Point is nothing short of mindblowing. I have never, and will never again, drive on roads that are so beautiful, as you literally drive along a road carved into a mountain with views across the sea. It's hard to even imagine a way that it could be prettier. However, it was also very humbling. Having never really left Europe before now, I had not seen true poverty - there is a homeless problem in London but it pales in comparison to the inequality that you see in Cape Town. One roundabout in particular will stick in my memory for life - turning left were mansions comparable to those owned by royalty along Bishop's Avenue in Highgate, but continuing straight on was a small town, comprising almost entirely of small shacks made out of tin. There must have been at least a thousand of these tiny structures crammed into the smallest area, and it made me feel very lucky to be born in the country that I was.

The first stop along this route was the moment I had been waiting for - Boulders Beach. Visiting wild penguins has been one of my bucket list items for as long as I can remember; and they did not disappoint. For well over an hour we watched them go about their daily routines, inches from where we stood, fascinated as without any provocation or indication, hundreds of them gathered simultaneously at the edge of the waves to do their morning fishing. I could have spent hours upon hours there, but there was so much more to see. We continued on to Cape Point and the Cape of Good Hope. If I could provide some advice to anyone reading this, it's make sure you get to these places VERY EARLY. We arrived at Boulders Beach at around 8.30am, and it was practically empty save for the penguins, but by the time we arrived at Cape Point at around 11am, it was already starting to get very busy - but when we left, there was a queue stretching for several miles and would have taken hours to go down. DO NOT go on a tour, hire a car, get up early, and just go. It's worth it. On the way back to Cape Town proper, we stopped off to eat lunch at Chapman's Peak Hotel, where we had the best Calamari I have ever eaten.

For our last day in Cape Town, we visited the rolling hills of Kirstenbosch, the V&A Waterfront, the colourful Bo-Kaap district, and went for lunch at the Constantia Glen vineyard - where I got 5 taster glasses of wine, an enormous pile of biltong, droëwors, olives, capers and bread for about £5, and it was fucking delicious.

We then abandoned the crappy Hyundai and flew over to King Shaka Intl Airport, from which we were transported to the Oyster Box Hotel in Umhlanga rocks, on the outskirts of Durban. It was here we spent two days soaking up the sunshine of a November summer, enjoying pizza by the pool, a curry buffet, and laughing at the monkeys making unsuspecting people jump when they tried to steal their food. We managed to regain a small amount of energy before waking up at 4am to head back to the airport for the final stage of our trip.

After a small layover in Johannesburg airport we got on the smallest fucking plane in the world over to Skukuza airport on the border of Kruger National Park. Skukuza is a marvellous little airport, it consists of a few huts, and baggage reclaim is a table. We were met there by Quorlani, who would be our tracker for the next three days, and he took us to our lodgings at Lion Sands Game Reserve. Within thirty seconds of entering the reserve, Gabi's life was complete as we came across a baby giraffe. It would be the first of many. There is nothing quite like going on Safari. The thrill of tracking a leopard through the bushes, of being caught in a traffic jam of elephants, of being so close to a lioness that you could reach out and touch it (if you had a deathwish, of course) - there is literally nothing else like it in the world. The trackers and guides - speaking to eachother in their local language - would be continuously stalking these animals, and suddenly, when you're struggling to stay in your seat as they thrash the jeep at 60km/h + along the dirt roads, you know they've stumbled onto something amazing. 

We spent three days getting up every day at 5am to go on drives, getting back to the lodge for breakfast around 9am. After breakfast we typically slept for a couple of hours, before eating some more, and then going out for another game drive around 4pm, getting back by about 8pm. We would see things that we will never forget. 

The flight back to London was long and arduous, with the knowledge that this was probably a once-in-a-lifetime experience that we would never get to have again. But, it was worth it. It was worth all of the extra hours of work, every single penny we had to pay - it will be the best thing I have ever done, probably for the rest of my life. If you wish to see the video we documented, check it out on the new [travel videos](/travel) page that I've set up. It captures it in a way that words simply cannot.

South Africa, you were sensational, and I hope to be back one day.